let's say you meet two people i haven't
asked you about your sexuality or
anything but i'm just gonna assume a
heteronormative
perspective for a second so let's say
you meet two guys and like
one of them genuinely cares about you
and one of them is an [ __ ] who
pretends to care about you
and the interesting thing that can
happen is that sometimes
the genuine caring actually makes you
feel so uncomfortable that you pull away
from it
and you kind of pick the devil that you
know welcome
hello nice to meet you nice to meet you
too
and and so people call me all look or dr
k can you
tell me how you would like to be
addressed today uh
i'm nikki nikki okay yeah
and um welcome nikki thank you so much
for
gracing us with your presents thank you
so much for inviting me
i'm as much as i haven't watched too
many streams i am a fan i am really
really
um actually thankful for what you're
doing here
um so yeah well uh yeah so thank you
very much for coming on and
and you know i appreciate the gratitude
is there something in particular that
you want to talk about today or
something that we can help you with
nikki
um i'm not 100 sure
um perfect although
although i did um start therapy today
and we talked a bit of my about my
anxiety yeah yeah
so yeah started therapy today and
came on stream both in one day
i know i know it's mental health
awareness day
month you know yeah wow good for you
yeah and have you been in therapy before
i have um i've been through therapy all
um my adolescence life so like ever
since i was
a young teenager i went through therapy
okay yeah
do you mind if i ask you some questions
about that no for sure
okay um you know just a reminder that if
i ask you anything that you don't feel
comfortable answering you're
welcome to not answer it um but i think
a lot of people
are curious about you know how to get
into therapy what it does for you things
like that can you
tell us a little bit about what your
experience with therapy has been like
for sure um so i've been
into i was in psych wards that was the
first experience i had when i was
with with therapy when i was very young
i got admitted into a psych ward
and that's how i started my first
therapy that's where i got diagnosed the
first time and
how i started to how i started to work
with
antidepressants and different kinds of
therapy
um and i actually went through dbt
twice um which really helped me
yeah um can can you explain to us what
dbt
is um oh god what is it
i'm not quite sure what it is in english
because i did it in german
but it's basically um like
i think it's behavioral therapy it's to
um um so
it's it's basic it's like impulse
control i would say
um yeah i think your experience of it is
perfect i i don't know that people need
like a technical definition but
can you just kind of tell us about what
it's been like for you and
so uh the first time i went through it i
i thought it was
i i didn't i i didn't quite you know i
wasn't ready for it yet
um but it's it's basically they taught
me how to
um i i did self harm when i was younger
it's not it's not a secret you can say
it
um i don't do it anymore um but they
taught me how to
get that into like how to control that
how to
um kind of um like kind of learn
different
things that i can do instead of uh
harming my body harming myself
and we did a lot of i'm not quite sure
what it is in english but we did
quite a lot of like meditation and like
being aware of your surroundings and of
yourself
uh which i think really helps and this
is really good
what is it in german um
yeah yeah is there a way to literally
translate that
like awareness like awareness practice
i would say beautiful that's yeah that's
that's a that's a beautiful way to
describe it
describe what it is um and feel free to
just use the german word if you can't
come up with anywhere
okay okay yeah i you know
so it's funny because a lot of people um
so
early on when i was training to become a
psychiatrist i had a patient whose
english was not their first language and
everyone just sort of assumed that that
would mean that the therapy wouldn't go
well
but i actually found that um that was
actually like one of my
best sort of therapy experiences because
uh since we didn't speak the same
language like we didn't assume
anything so we were like defining terms
that like
normally you know i would say oh like
how was your childhood and someone would
say good
and then we just moved past it even
though it may not have been good or i
interpreted things one way
and so i actually think working with
people who don't speak your language or
like you guys just have a little bit of
a
you know language gap can actually be
really really good
um because you don't fall into
assumptions yeah no i think i think
that's a really good way to see it
um so yeah because i also love the way
that you
you translated
yeah good job good job
thank you thank you
um and so so how how does
what did they teach you that helped you
control your impulses
um i think
i think for me it was mostly i
need it wasn't it wasn't mostly about
my impulses it was most mostly about
needing like something that i can rely
on
because growing up i didn't have that
much how i have it that much
and therapy actually helped me um in a
way where it's like hey
if you ever need something and you don't
know where to go
you have the therapy that you can go to
if you don't know who to talk to you
have your therapist you can talk to
um in the psych ward i had people to
take care of me
i think that was a big thing i'm very
bad with
like looking for help because i always
i'm like i'm so self-aware i know what
i'm doing i can do this by myself
so even like going to therapy now it's
like it's a very big step um
but i think i need it where where like i
need something to rely on and i need
something to fall back on
and that's i think that's what therapy
was for me and what helped me
yeah so sort of like a like a home base
or
kind of retreat or yeah can you tell me
a little bit about what growing up was
like for you
um i moved a lot ever since i was young
i moved every half a year
um i also grew up with all the f without
a father
um my mom i i
there is addiction running in my family
and my mom sadly suffered from it from
for the most part
um which i back then didn't understand
um and it was sort of like uh
i got thrown into new situations and
then pulled out of it without
me having a saying in it and then and
then
um not knowing where to go or what to do
um
and then once i moved out at 17 i had to
grow up really early because i had to
take care of my mom
um so i wow yeah i kind of just
i kind of just uh started to be more
independent and that really helped me
streaming really helped me i was a very
insecure kid
i was very shy and very very um
quiet growing up so
yeah streaming helped me a lot moving
out by myself helped me a lot because i
had that distance
from my from my child like childhood
from my family
and that helped me understand everything
that
i didn't understand when i was younger
and what are some of the things that you
gained understanding about
like what did you come to understand
that was confusing as a kid
i for example saw the sight of my mom
my mom always struggled with her current
boyfriends with her ex-boyfriends
with money we didn't have much money
growing up
um and i sort of started to understand
that
as my like as much as addiction is and
can be seen as an illness it's not her
fault
she did not mean to treat me the way
that she wanted to she maybe just didn't
know any better
um and i actually really really love my
mom now and
we're really like like tight and and
good with each other so yeah yeah
and and why did you move every six
months
um mostly uh so there's one thing that i
can't talk about on the internet which
i'm sure which i can't tell
um but mostly it was because of my mom
and her boyfriend she always moved to
her boyfriend's because she didn't have
money
um but my mom is a very pretty woman and
so she got to date
men that are rich i don't know
yeah um so we always moved to them
really quickly
and it really quickly didn't work out so
we had to move away
okay yeah um thanks for sharing that
there's something that you know we want
to steer clear of
i'm still not quite sure what to avoid
so i may need your guidance
i'm not trying to ignore i just don't
know what it is that we can't talk about
quite yet so apologies if i stumble
towards it
okay just let me know yeah of course of
course
and and so you mentioned that you didn't
grow up
kind of knowing your father is that
something that's still the case or
it sounds like you've really repaired
your relationship with your mom you all
become really close you all love each
other support each other a lot
um do you mind if i just ask quickly
like if that
oh yeah um i i had a father figure
when i was very young um but very
quickly
that turned that's what i can talk about
um
yeah and then i found out that he's not
my father when i was nine years old
um and my real father actually
he knows me like he my mom showed him my
twitch he knows
nia um but i have never known him and he
always said that i'm not his daughter
until we did a father
like a test like that he's my father
um but yeah he he's not in my life
i don't i don't really mind it either
though
yeah i i can i can see how you know it's
sort of like
you know never sort of he was never in
your life to begin with so it's not like
you lost anything
yeah exactly at the same time i can
imagine that
you know it can it may be hurtful
for him to say things like you're not it
was at first
definitely i i definitely at first was
very hurtful
um but i got over it very quickly
yeah do you mind if i ask how you did
that because that does seem remarkable
i i i feel like i i don't want to blame
it on that but i feel like because i've
moved so many times because i've dealt
with
getting over people losing people
getting thrown away like
thrown out of the situation um i feel
like because of that i've gotten
really really good at just getting over
people in general
like as much as i am hurt for the first
few days or for the first
for the first time i i quickly move on
from that
i just yeah
um nikki you seem just
incredibly resilient
thank you and i almost feel a little bit
sad saying that because i think it's
been rough that you've had to be so
resilient
you know i sometimes wish that people
had lives where they didn't have to be
quite as resilient and bounce back quite
as much as you had to
it sounds kind of rough um
it makes me the person i am today i um i
actually want to become a psychiatrist
um so i feel like because of all the
things that i have
um that i've been through i don't want
to say like oh i've been through so much
but like all of the things that i have
been through
uh because of that
yeah i um i learned how to um i
have a lot of empathy and i i i know how
a lot of people feel
and also i am pretty resilient so if
someone tells me that i i take it in but
it's not like weighing on me so much
can you help me understand um you
wanting to become a psychiatrist
why on earth um
save yourself nikki before it's too late
i just want to help people um at first i
wanted to become a psychiatrist
in a children's and adolescence psych
ward because that's what i've been
through and i think that helped me a lot
um but the more i am here as a streamer
and content creator i feel like a lot of
content creators could really use
um some professional help so i would
really like to
to do something in in this area as a
professional
mental health professional and um
okay look can i just think for a second
yeah for sure
i'm trying to understand the boundaries
of this conversation and
and i'm trying to mostly very open i am
fine with talking about
um mental health about my issues i talk
about it a lot on my own stream
um if there's anything that i don't want
to talk about
i will tell you and i won't feel
offended or anything so
don't worry at all yeah that i figured
out
the boundaries that i i need a moment to
think about are my own
oh okay oh okay i'm sorry
so there's there's all part you know
there i'm having all these thoughts
about supporting you in your goal like
in terms of
you know you know how can we
you know what because i love to support
you but i i think that that's not really
the relationship that we have
in terms of of you know if you want to
talk to people
or want research opportunities or
whatever which we just talked about a
little bit
um you know i know a lot of people in a
lot of places
and and i think you'd be a wonderful fit
just having talked to you for five or
ten minutes
in in a lot of the clinical settings
i've seen and so there's a part of me
that
very strongly wants to support you in a
very like much more like practical way
like i want to
introduce you to you know are
like the person who runs the adolescent
um you know i'm going to steer clear of
a particular diagnosis
but there's a there's a particular uh
you know residential unit where people
will come and stay for 30 or 60 days
most of them are women
they teach a lot of dbt there and and i
think that that could be like a really
wonderful place for you to
work clinically if you ever became a
psychiatrist so i'm personally just
restraining all of that energy to try to
support you and your goal
um and just thinking about what's
appropriate and what isn't to say
i see i see it and so like
so help me understand a little bit so i
mean i hear this a lot from streamers
too because you know we work with a lot
of
streamers here at hg um and so you're a
streamer
you're a good streamer you're a
successful streamer
and and how do you how do you think
about
you know potentially becoming like a
licensed mental health professional
versus like your streaming career
um so i i never intended
to become a big streamer um i don't
think
many people do i don't think many people
start and are like oh i'm going to be
this big streamer
so it has always been my goal and my
dream to become a psychiatrist
and i will not just throw that away just
because i have a different career path
now
um i feel like as much as streaming is a
wonderful job and i would love to do it
forever
it is not a secure job that that you
know you can do forever
so i think i will just do streaming for
as long as i can for as long as i have
fun
for as long as it's you know i can pay
my rent with it and i can pay my uni and
everything with it
um but i i feel like
at some point everyone just falls off
um so or most people so
um and like i will i will still work
towards
my plan a which is psychiatrist um
even though i but i will not i don't
know i really know how to say it but
like i will not give up streaming
um but i will still work towards
becoming a psychiatrist because you
never know
i could go live today and have zero
viewers
so yeah um
you know i know this sounds weird but
you may be able to become a psychiatrist
and a streamer
it is actually possible which i didn't
i i didn't i didn't realize you know i i
don't i don't know how true that was
maybe a year or two ago but it appears
to be true now
yeah yeah you're right
so and so it sounds like you're in uni
you're doing
uh i took this year off because of covet
i just couldn't handle it totally
but uh after like once everything comes
down
i will definitely go go back to uni yeah
i wasn't here once i just start again
and do you nikki do you mind if i ask
just estimate of how old you are
i'm 19. oh wow okay
yeah how long have you been streaming
two years oh wow
it's been my job for one year now you
seem
older i hear that a lot yeah
how do you how do you interpret that
when people say things like that
um i agree because i had to grow up very
very quickly
so and i have very i have a lot of
friends that are
in their early mid to late 20s
so i don't i don't have many friends
that are in like 18 19
18 19 17 18 19. so i think
um yeah i think i think that makes sense
yeah it's sad that you had to grow up
early
[Laughter]
yeah but it made me the person i am
today and i'm actually as much as i
still struggle with myself
um pretty happy with who i am and who
are you
um i'm nikki i am here to help people
and make people laugh and smile and as
long as i can do that i'm happy
i did a lot of um volunteering growing
up
and that's definitely also what i want
to do continuing on
i couldn't do it during culvert but yeah
yeah this may sound like a weird
question why is it important to you to
make people happy
i think because i know what it feels
like to be at your lowest
and i don't i don't wish that upon
anyone not even my
enemies i don't have anyways but the
people that i don't like i just don't
want
i just yeah
you know i'm really curious who has
enemies nowadays
i don't know yeah i know right it's like
i mean i'm sure they're out there but
i'm sure some people do and i
you know right i yeah i have people i
don't like and people
who don't like me but we're not enemies
i'm not making
anything to to make their life miserable
or anything
and and you said that you you enjoy
making people happy because you know
what it's like
to be unhappy can you tell us a little
bit more about that
um i don't know i
i just had a lot of
bad experiences in my life i would say
like i'm not i always whenever i do this
um i i'm like oh i'm just i'm just
trying to talk about myself and i come
off as oh i'm just talking about myself
here and making myself feel
seem i don't know i don't like talking
about myself in that way much i don't
like
telling people that i've had bad
experiences in my life but i definitely
did and i definitely
um had
i don't know just very low points
yeah yeah it's time for me to talk about
that
yeah how do how do you why is it hard
for you to talk about that
i don't know maybe because i
um i am not at a position
right now where
my life's good i don't have to you know
as much as i still have a lot of
struggles
and especially with myself i
am financially stable and i am doing a
job that i love and i
have many friends and and and out of
that
that i feel like i am not allowed to
talk about the bad times in my life
because it's
you know it's not like that anymore so
why should i talk about it
um so i i think i think that's what
makes me struggle
can i think for a second for sure
so nikki i think you know it's it's
i really enjoy talking to you i think
we're having a very lovely conversation
um i think it could help a lot of people
to hear your story and at the same time
i'm not hearing anything that we're
talking about that will actually be
helpful to you
yeah and and something very
sneaky is happening which is that you're
you're
coming on here and you're helping other
people
you're sharing your experiences for the
sake of
educating other people but we're not
we're really steering away from
anything that could be helpful to you
does that make sense
yes that makes sense okay so you're
you're a sneaky one so let's think a
little bit about that for a second
okay we can we can respect that boundary
right if you don't want to talk about
things that could help you and i think
by the way there's a theme running here
which is that you don't like reaching
out for help
you don't like showing people and now
everything's better there's that
right yeah yeah so so
but we can we can actually choose to
respect that right like we can just
acknowledge that that thing is there
that you
don't want you don't want us to throw
you a pity party
right yeah you don't want us to like
think like oh like
nikki's had like such a hard time
exactly
like you're happy sharing your your
story of triumph like yeah it was really
hard but
you can do it too like you're happy
saying that you're having
an inspiration if it helps other people
but yeah
you don't want us to be worried about
you exactly
100 yeah right which is fine
if we decide that so i'm i see you're
getting emotional i've maybe
taught you a little bit sorry but you
are
so you are so incredibly self-aware
nikki you understand yourself so well
you've grown so much
so i'm just i'm putting it out there
normally i'd like skirt around it i
won't you know i wouldn't like pin you
like i feel like i've
trapped you so that's all right so how
what do you think about that like um
no i i do agree um i do agree with that
especially
the oh i don't we don't want to throw
you a pity party because
um i do get babied on the internet a lot
um where it's like oh poor nikki and
oh she's she's she's doing this and but
for her
well um well i'm sitting here and i'm
like yeah but
it's all right like you know i
i'm fine so i feel like i feel like
if i if i would talk about how right now
i struggle with a lot of anxiety which
is true
i feel like people would then again be
like oh poor her
i hope she's okay which is fair enough
but i i don't want that
like i want to be here for my chat and i
want to make my chat laugh
they don't have to be there for me
because i am just their source of
entertainment
can i think for a second yes
i'm gonna need a long second maybe like
a minute that's okay
i'm so sorry no no no it's it's not i
i think so i need to think more when
people
are more insightful because usually like
if people are slow
with how how they progress it gives me
plenty of time i mean not like people
are slow but like
the more insightful you are the more i
have to like take a step back and
you know just hold on okay
okay
subtle there's a lot going on here
that's okay i'm
okay i'm i'm here okay so the first
thing is that
i think i i want to kind of toss
something out to you
maybe you can help me think through it
so
one is that people baby you right i
think that can be insulting and
demeaning
but i would suspect that when you get
babied there's a
when there's a subtle difference between
people
babying you and caring about you
and i i think that you probably dislike
both
yeah probably and one of those is fair
right because we don't want a baby
we don't want to we don't want to like
say like oh like oh nikki does it like
poor thing she's so hurt she's so
incapable of
no because you're very capable yeah
exactly
financially independent at the age of 19
in university
have career aspirations you you spawned
in a really really
bad location when you were born on this
earth
and with a lot of challenges and despite
this the fact that you had like a crappy
spawn
you have managed to accomplish at the
age of 19 just a ridiculous amount
and we're just getting started so i
think that babying you is not fair
yeah i agree at the same time
i think that you don't it makes you
uncomfortable when people
choose to care about you
i agree what's up with that um
maybe maybe i'm just not
used to i don't want to again oh you're
just not used to
people caring about me there's that
voice you see that voice yeah i know
um but yeah i i have an example for
example
an example for example um i i'm in this
group
in this friend group and um
they are streamers they're all streamers
all content creators and they
talk over me a lot and it's a thing it's
it's a thing um and
i've recently gotten into this into like
i talked to like two of the people or
three other people and then they
they suddenly let me talk and as much as
i was always like oh i wish i could talk
i wish i could say my mind
oh you know um once i actually could
i didn't know what to say because i was
so used to being talked over
and not finishing my sentences not being
heard that once i actually got heard
once people actually listened to me i
did not know what to say
and i think that is the same thing with
people caring about me
where it's like as much as i always
wanted it and as much as i always
wanted to feel safe and feel secure and
have people care about me
now that i have people care about me i
just don't know what to do with it
yeah beautifully said and
what i'm hearing from you is that it's
sad but you sort of didn't learn
how to be cared for
and and so i think what i'm hearing from
you is that you've really like
adapted to surviving on your own
you know because like you don't need
other people to take care of you because
that voice in your head doesn't
yeah it's always [ __ ] up yeah
it really is yeah interesting huh
can you tell us about that voice in your
head
oh that voice it does not like me
it does not want me to succeed um
and i think it helps me to be more
self-aware but at the same time it just
makes me sound hypocritical a lot of the
times
yeah so what kinds of things does it say
to you
um i think
it started i had an eating disorder
throughout
my entire life my mom's a model so she
kind of
put that down on me and that voice
started
when i was very young and at first it
was just the thing it repeated the
things that
people in school told me that my mom
showed me um
it it repeated my own insecurities
and the older i got the more it just
repeated
um it kind of just
made me feel like i don't deserve
good things happening to me you know
yep so let me ask you a weird question
does the voice help your success
or hinder your success that's the
question
i don't know and certain things i would
say
definitely it hinders it on the surface
i would say it hinders it but
on the other hand i think i
i need to i need that voice to tell
myself i can overcome it
i think i think i just constantly need
that challenge of something else
working against me and working against
what i want
so i yeah
if that makes sense makes a lot of sense
and now i'm gonna
because this is the thing nikki you make
too much sense
right so i asked you the hard question
which usually it takes us an
hour and a half to get to oh actually
the voice isn't all bad
but you get there right away so i i need
to
i feel like it's a therapy um a little
bit i know the normal
one so like you know i feel like i'm i'm
like in an anime where like we've caught
up with the manga and now i need to make
filler
and right it's quite a sneak to pause
for a second because this is gonna be a
filler
i'm sorry no no no it's it's on the
contrary so
um
man you understand so much
thank you
okay how would you feel if chat
cared about you
i would feel
at one point at one hand i would feel
um like thankful and i would be like
that's very sweet that's very nice
and on the other hand i would feel like
that's not your place to be
and then on the other hand i would
probably feel like
please don't okay
so we're gonna pay attention to on one
hand and on the other hand okay any time
you say that or anytime you think that
so for example the voice in your head
does it help your success or hinder your
success
on the one hand it's toxic and on the
other hand it's a challenge that drives
me forward
yeah right so yeah
so and when we go back to chat and when
we ask like you know
do they how would you feel about them
caring about you like there's a part of
you that can feel
gratitude there's a part of you that
says
no no it works the other way around
and yeah what's that third part of you
um
like it's not their place to be
like they have their own
things to care about i guess maybe yeah
so whose place is it to care about you
um my friends
and my family
that's a good answer is that actually
how you feel
yeah i think i mean
i guess chad that's a very hard question
i i do feel thankful that chad cares
about me
of course i do i i love my audience my
audience is the sweetest audience
yeah yeah um
but maybe maybe they should care about
me in a different way than my friends
and family should care about me because
we we didn't establish the word care
what is the word care what does the word
care say
and intel i think it's like chat should
care about me in a way of
oh is nikki happy doing the work that
she does is nikki have been
happy providing us with the content that
she that she does is she
safe and happy no no safe and healthy
like
those things but they can't actually
change much about it as
like like i said i'm very happy with my
audience and that is because
they act the way that they do and i
think
i think if they care about me in a way
of i want to make this community safe
because i care about my streamer
then i'm very happy and i think that's
what they should do
but they should not care about me on a
personal level where they will
reach out to me on my business email and
ask me if i am okay and if i want to
talk to them because that is not their
place to be
yeah so that sounds like very good
boundaries so now i'm gonna ask you
do you sometimes find yourself
um well said
no i'm gonna have to pause
this is gonna be the stream that we call
the battle of pauses
and i think you're winning right now the
score is like eight to one
okay so how
how do you feel about yourself when
you're making your chat happy
i feel good about myself i
if when when i have a good stream where
i see that my chat is having fun
i call that a successful stream and a
good stream
okay seems like
give me a second that's totally fine i'm
so sorry i feel so bad
why because you keep having to pause
so what's why do you feel bad about that
i'm not sure
i don't know what would make you feel
good
that's a hard question
um i don't know
i'm i'm happy to be here i feel good to
be here
i'm very thankful that i got invited to
this i
i am too i'm i'm i'm doing well right
now
are you concerned that i'm not doing
well yeah
yeah and so when you get concerned that
i'm not doing well how does that make
you feel
not not well yeah right because you're
not
maybe you're not making me happy and
when you don't make me happy how do you
how do you feel unhappy
like like guys like i didn't succeed
yeah
what does it feel like to not succeed
like that voice that told me i won't
will
will be louder yeah absolutely and
remind me of that
so the voice is telling you oh you
shouldn't be this difficult you should
be simpler
exactly and you should let dr k work you
to a revelation
and that everybody can watch the
revelation and then you can have
you can cry and you can have learned
something new about yourself
and that it's going to be exactly what
it's supposed to be everyone will be
happy
exactly but the voice telling you no no
don't
don't disrupt the boat right so
so
i think i'm gonna stop asking you some
questions and i'm just gonna tell you
okay so like but so nikki that's a
problem
right because you've got to be really
really careful about
oh i don't even know how to say this um
do you see how that's a problem
i do see how that's help us out
um i have learned especially in the last
year and a half that that is a problem
because
i have met certain people that told me
one thing and i would believe that thing
and i would adapt to that thing
and then they would act a different way
and i would try to
act that way and adapt to that way but
in the end i could not
because i couldn't steer the boat and
the die in the correct direction
um because i didn't get any directions
um
and because i constantly need to
um from from my end i need to succeed i
need to
be i don't know i i don't
know how to explain it but i feel like
i feel like i see myself as something
that
everyone can fall back on i will adapt
myself to everyone and everything around
me
whether or not it's beneficial or good
for me
um and because i
get these different directions and no
directions at all
i feel very very lost a lot of the times
yeah so now we're going to come back to
another question or a question that
we've asked before
so who are you
wow um
um i am
[Music]
i'm still nicki you're damn right you
are
i i still am a person with ambitions and
um goals in life and who is independent
by themselves
um i just maybe sometimes um
try to adapt myself too much
to other people
well set so now we get into a tricky
situation because
as as you give the right answers
and i said as i say things like well
said
that may calm down the voice do you see
that yeah
yeah because now you're being vulnerable
enough like oh like that's a hard
question like
oh dr k yeah and then and like so the
more that you like struggle like the
more the voice is like
good job nikki you're being what they
want you to be
right and so this is tricky because like
like you said
you know you adapt yourself a little bit
too much you're very good you're a
chameleon
you can be what people need you to be
and and this is the tricky thing is that
like you know when you're like i think
that there's a lot of genuineness but
there's like
a lot of um dialectic actually
so so the the d and dbt stands for
dialectical
and and what dialectical means i think
you understand
it very well i mean it's clear so the
dialectic is like the two
sides of the argument so on the one hand
i'm nikki
and on the other hand i actually am a
little bit confused about who i am at
times
and and or maybe another way to put it i
think as you have started to learn who
you are
is i give up who i am for what people
want me to be
and and so like i think that that's
challenging
um
any thoughts i agree
yeah i think i think that sounds
very accurate yeah so so
i i this is going to sound kind of weird
but you know the voice in your head
when other people tell you the same
thing that the voice in your head tells
you how do you respond to that
yeah you're right i um
i have learned oh sorry um i have
learned
growing up and going through therapy
i've learned how to take compliments i
we
had a whole therapy session group
session about how to
take compliments so whenever someone
gives me a compliment i say thank you
i yeah that's really nice of you um but
it
it is only when someone says something
negative about me that i actually take
it in
and i i
process it and it actually reaches me
i think that's that's why it's very hard
to be a streamer because i do see a lot
of negative things
yeah so so i and i think this is where
maybe you know maybe we can try to like
i'd like to help you swim in the water
of like why you do that right so like
you've got this negative voice in you
part of it
you know feels like it's like hurts you
because it does hurt you and at the same
time it also like
helps you succeed right and and so then
there
are times where you know i think that
like you have to be careful
i mean we haven't talked about your
romantic relationships but i think
sometimes
people for whom negativity resonates
with them
can open themselves up to abusive
relationships
or abusive dynamics and we can kind of
hear this a little bit because you had
that group of friends that always talked
over you
and you're like resenting it on the one
hand but it feels right
on the other and then you've got like
these two or three people who actually
give you the space to speak
and that's what you've always wanted and
you're really uncomfortable
and this is the dialectic it's like i
want to speak
but boy does it feel good when i get
talked over because then your voice is
like you see that he's
you don't have anything good to say
anyway exactly you don't know how to
talk
anyways yeah yeah so it's kind of tricky
and so then the question becomes like
what
what makes you like and then when people
compliment you
i think this is tricky so i know you had
a therapy session where you learned how
to act
how to accept a compliment you practice
acting
you don't actually accept it what gets
in the way
i
probably that voice not wanting me to
succeed not wanting me to feel good
about myself and feel good about
things that people compliment me on
yeah and and what's your understanding
of why your voice
doesn't want you to feel good what is it
doing there why is it doing that
it's trying to keep me in the place
where i have been for the majority of my
life because that's
comforting because that is the safety
net that i
that i have i um
i fall and like when we talk about
romantic relationships i fall in love
with people who make me feel safe
um and that might be me trying to get
out of that place that the voice is
keeping me in that safety net
um but that also like you said opens me
up to a lot of abusive relationships
because that is then the safety net that
i try to fall back on
um and a lot of the times it doesn't
work out um
so i think i think that is what the
voice is doing it's trying to keep me in
that place where i have been
my entire life where it is easy to stay
because i don't have to work
to get out of it well said
so so here's here's what i kind of heard
so i think i know it sounds
weird but i think the voice is
protecting you
right and this is is actually like
devastating but
it happens to be true that you have
survived abuse and neglect
and like there's a very interesting
adaptation
to like surviving abuse and neglect
which is like this idea that
you don't deserve any better because
then at least it makes sense right
if i'm like fundamentally oh you want to
finish
yeah like human beings try to make sense
of everything
everything we need to we need to make
sense of it so
i totally agree i've heard that a lot of
times i've learned that while i did
psychology myself
i know that that is the thing i i need
to make sense of it why did i get abused
why did i get neglected what
what made me like what made people want
to do that to me
and the thing that that voice tells me
it's
because you deserve it because whatever
you did you deserve it
and i say okay right that makes sense i
deserve it
um yeah yeah so i'm gonna point
something out i think we're gonna skirt
close to the area that we're not going
to talk about
so you don't have to talk about it but
i'm just going to illustrate something
right so if we go back to like
early on and if you can share something
i think it could be illustrative but
it's enough for you to just think it you
don't actually have to answer my
question
i forgot what i was going to say with
that oh no
okay so so
when you're growing up and you're moving
around a lot and things are bad
right your mind comes up with like
some kind of way to help you survive
that right and you so you come up with
like this adaptation
and then the interesting thing is that
like that adaptation makes sense like
it's sort of like your mind comes up
with this idea and there's
interesting stuff about cognitive
development stuff that we can talk about
but
essentially your mind like comes up with
a formula for the way that the world
works you have to make sense of the way
the world works
and to grow up the way that you did the
only logical conclusion that a smart
insightful person like yourself can come
to
is that you don't deserve to be treated
well
because clearly you know
you had lots of data to suggest that you
don't deserve to be treated well
and then something really important
happens which is that voice in your head
says that you know what as long as you
don't deserve to be treated well and
we're all on the same page
as long as we know the final boss that
we're dealing with we can win
we can survive you're completely okay if
you don't rely on anyone else if no one
cares about you
i can take care of you i will protect
you i will make you succeed
i will help you become a psychiatrist
that transforms and enriches the lives
of many many people
and it's going to be a shell that you
show the rest of the world and i'm going
to be with you on the inside and we're
not going to let anyone else in
[Music]
and so it can become terrifying because
that's it's a safety net i think you
used a beautiful phrase there
and now things get really really
dangerous because
if people start to care about you and
you
let them in what does that say about you
that i'm vulnerable
sure that i i think i think that is also
like a
big thing i have tried to let people in
and then
that trust that i've gave given that
people got abused
so then the voice gets louder um
and tells me to see see that's that's
why you shouldn't trust people that's
why
we are in here you and me but everyone
else is out there
um yeah so now i'm going to say
something this may not make a whole lot
of sense
i think the thing you've got to be
really careful about nikki is i think
that
voice knows how to pick the right people
to let them in and convince you
that i i was right all along i agree
100 my mom has the same issue well yeah
my mom and i actually talked about that
a lot i agree can you can you help us
understand
that a little bit because i know we know
what we're talking about i'm not sure
that everyone can follow
um so i think it is
so people in your life as a person that
has met many people in their lives
uh growing up and moving a lot um
have certain patterns of how to get to
know you
how to talk to you what their hobbies
are
the way they approach other people
and i think i don't do it
consciously but subconsciously i see
those patterns and i take
the toxic patterns and i blend them out
they're not there for me
but subconsciously i know that these are
toxic patterns and
these patterns will hurt me um but
i will still i because i don't see them
consciously
i will let these people in and then once
i get hurt by them
on one hand i'm surprised and i tell
myself why did i deserve that and on the
other hand i tell myself
yeah but these you you you knew that you
you knew that that was
that was what you wanted that that was
what you what you needed
i guess yeah it's it's tricky right
because i i think there's a part of it
because like
nikki you are very you will be a very
good psychiatrist if you'd be
thank you so i think you're really good
at reading people
and i think you're really good at like
knowing what they are and what they're
going to give you and i think there's a
part of you that
now we're really getting into
hypothetical territory but i'd say that
there's a part of you that
sees all of the stuff on the surface
that you want from those people
and also detects like everything
underneath the surface
and it also reassures you because it
says hey look at all this beautiful
stuff on the surface
this person is going to be the right
person for you and then underneath
they know that that person is going to
make you
feel about yourself the way that you
sometimes do when you listen to that
voice
yeah definitely it's hard
so now we get to
yeah so let me just let me think for a
second
do you do you have a sense of how to
change this
um i mean like i said trying to let
people in as much as i will
i know i will get hurt in the future um
trying to let people in trying to
let people understand me and my
vulnerabilities
um yeah i'm not sure
yeah so so i think that's that's a good
that's a good strategy
i think it could be bumpy mm-hmm um so
what
as everything is as as every recovery
process
is well said also very resilient of you
so
but you know nikki i i'd actually prefer
if it's okay with you to try to like
lead you down a path now that's a little
bit different
yeah for sure and the thing is uh trying
stuff i don't think is actually your
strong suit
i i think you're very insightful and so
what i'd love to do is actually try to
leverage
your ability to understand your capacity
for awareness
and actually it has nothing to do with
anything outside of you
it has everything to do with what goes
on inside you
so the first thing is that recognize
that the voice in your head
is what his is your survivor
right like you've you've you are a
survivor
and and i think the really terrifying
thing is that like
you have concluded that you're not like
a good person on the inside
now i know that you don't there are
parts of you that has come to realize
that that's not true and stuff like that
so totally fine
but this goes back to like if someone
compliments you you're like you know it
bounces right off
or you learn how to pretend to take it
in and then if someone's like really
nasty to you they're like
you know it kind of sinks in and you're
like yes that's correct so that's what
we're talking about okay
and and the only way that the world can
make sense
if you grow up with the history that you
have
which once again we don't need to go
into is it okay that i just reference it
like that yeah yeah
okay so like you know i and if you feel
like i think it could be illustrated but
you don't have to if you can feel your
if you can share your experience of like
a particular memory you don't have to
tell us what happened
but just how you learn to believe that
about yourself
you know something like that not not
quite yet but let me just keep going but
i think it could be helpful
so so the world makes sense because you
don't deserve to be cared for
and and then what happens is like
something in there as you're navigating
those protective mechanisms we see
a lot of these coping mechanisms like
eating disorders
um you know self-injurious behavior
substance use we see all these different
things
and if you really look at those i i you
know i i'd bet money and you can answer
this if you want to
that when you were engaging in
self-injurious behavior it would shut up
the voice in your head
and this is the really interesting thing
about self-injurious behavior is that a
lot of times it's not
any intention to harm yourself it's
actually a very powerful
almost meditative technique that brings
your awareness to the present
and all of the voices in your head shut
up
because there is something incredibly
painful that demands a hundred percent
of your attention
yeah hence why dbt absolutely right so
what what dbt does is it trains you to
replace
that injurious behavior with another
meditative technique or awareness
technique or grounding technique
that causes your mind to like let go of
those thoughts and focus on one thing
and so i think the real challenge is
going to be and i feel like i want to
build up to this better
is that if you are worth caring for
it rewrites your history because that
means that like everything that happened
to you really
shouldn't have happened to you
yeah wow
um that's just wrong
that's just yeah i just realized that
that's way that's crazy um
because i always tell myself yeah no
it's okay that it happened because it
made me the first name today but
if you say it like that you're right oh
god
oh god
yeah right it's it's hard
because here's the thing nikki it's not
okay that i think that stuff happened to
you
but that you know
[Laughter]
damn it nikki
so you know what is that we can just
take a second
oh god
wow i've never i've never looked at it
that way actually
it was always like oh i'm so strong
for getting over it and telling myself
it's okay that it happened
but in reality i i know that it
shouldn't have happened
so what is it like to
have that thought
i still wanna i still just wanna do good
with it
like as much as it shouldn't have
happened
it i can i learn from it and i can take
so much experience from it that i can
use to help people and i think i think
if i can
manage to either and
and do this for someone else like that
it doesn't happen for someone else or
help someone else to
to deal with it and and to cope with
what happened
i think as long as i can do that it's
gonna be worth it
i know i'm just like projecting it on
other people again
but i feel like that's all i can do so
so here's
sure so i i think you're it the voice in
your head is struggling now okay which
is good
but you're saying like if i can turn
some
turn it into something good then it
makes it worth it
nikki no it doesn't
nothing is gonna make it work nothing
isn't gonna make it okay
right that like and i i don't mean to
bludgeon you i feel like
no yeah no i'm not gonna let you sneak
away
right because you're doing like your
mind's trying to do it like oh then
it'll be
okay if i can if i can protect a hundred
people's
pain by sacrificing myself then that
makes the sacrifice worth it
and this is what i'm telling you this is
why i think you're not going to be able
to let people care about you
until you recognize that fixing no
amount of people's lives
makes it okay what happened to you
there's no amount of self-sacrifice
that like i'm not going to let you do
that
saving a thousand lives doesn't make it
okay
right like worth it that's what you've
got to get rid of
because that's once again like that's
you putting other people ahead of
yourself
i tend to do that yes you do
and so if you really want to be able to
let people care about you
you have to let yourself come
first sometimes and i think you're
learning that
you know and i think you're right that
chat there are boundaries that are
important but when it comes to your
friends and your family and when it
comes to other people like wanting to
listen to your opinion
like you actually have it and here's a
crazy thing
so you think that your value is
determined on the number of people that
you help
like i believe you have value no matter
what you accomplish like that core thing
there's nothing
there's nothing you can do that just
like that counteracts that voice in
sight like that's like you see what i'm
saying there's like there's like the
like you don't have to do [ __ ]
you have intrinsic value nikki has
intrinsic value she doesn't have to
prove anything
she doesn't have to make it and like
what happened to her was bad
there's nothing that will make it worth
it
i'll have to think about like days after
penny for your thoughts
what are you thinking right now
[Laughter]
i think also insightful that i i
encourage you to continue to think about
those things but i think maybe
we're short-circuited for the day
wow
yeah so i don't know what to do now
so
yeah um questions do you have any
you don't have to have anything in your
mind because i think this is sort of
what we go for right i think it's fine
to
process this maybe talk to your
therapist next week about it whatever
um no i don't think i have any questions
about
that now but um like i said i
i really like what you do like what you
work do you
want to tell me or i know a lot of my
viewers are in chat right now do you
want to tell us like more about your
work and what you do
[Laughter]
yes we can we can we can certainly go to
safe ground
and the safety net of telling people
about what we do
because i i i don't think i can talk
much about myself anymore
i think we're done i think it's it's a
gigi
uh so yeah sure i'm i'm happy to do that
so my name is ola i'm a i'm a
psychiatrist that
practices in boston i spent about seven
years studying to become a monk
and then met my wife and fell in love
and then she wanted to be married to a
doctor
and so i went to medical school she
wanted to be married to a neurosurgeon
but i decided that wasn't for me so i
picked the next best thing which is
psychiatry
and then what i really found is that
there are a lot of
uh you know mental health the child the
mental health challenges that people
face nowadays are
are expanding changing very rapidly
and that some of these perspectives that
psychiatry
has are like missing something so and i
think nikki actually you illustrate this
really well where
man you are incredibly resilient
incredibly insightful i'm sure you'd be
a wonderful
clinician um you have a very high eq
which is emotional quotient so i think
your ability to read
other people and understand what they
need is like really high
and at the same time despite all of the
therapy despite all of the intelligence
there's a perspective
here about what is the self
that i think is missing from kind of
like psychiatric treatment
because at the end of the day like we
can you know you could do therapy and
you can make these
uncoveries in therapy but sort of really
grappling with this like
of who am i and do i have worth as a
human being and being taught
that i don't have worth as a human being
overcoming that
being resilient and being positive and
sacrificing yourself for the rest of the
world
is noble and wonderful and makes the
world a better place
and is also unfair to you
right so these kinds of perspectives is
what we try to help people with
is that there's definitely a mental
health or mental treatment component i
think seeing a therapist is a wonderful
thing
and and i think you're just a really
fantastic example of someone who's
really internalized
i think it is amazing that you know
you're saying that you don't really
engage in self-injurious behavior
anymore we haven't really talked about
it but it sounds like some of your
eating behaviors are probably better
under control
things like that and so i think you're
a wonderful example of what we try to
balance in people which is that there's
like a mental
health comp or like mental treatment
component right
which is like the clinical psychiatry
and then there's almost like
a more spiritual component understanding
yourself component
finding your purpose in life trying to
figure out you know what is the root of
these patterns
of who you engage in relationships with
how can we understand those things
uh so that's really what we try to do
and we started in the gaming community
because i'm a degenerate gamer
and um what i really found is that a lot
of people
in this community like need help and
need support and the other really
interesting thing is that
i found that the standard psychiatry
stuff part of the reason it doesn't work
ideally is because we actually don't
play to the gamer's strengths
and in your case nikki like i think
playing directly to the strength of your
insight like going out and trying stuff
like you don't need to do that
you can actually figure most of it out
up here and i think that's what you've
managed to do your entire life
right like you've learned how to survive
and adapt like
all in here and so that's kind of the
approach that we take
i like that now i'm curious whenever i
i say you're insightful like do you does
that sink in or do you swat it
uh no it doesn't get i i i i take
i appreciate that a lot yeah like
hearing that from especially you as
you know a psychiatrist a trained
professional i do appreciate that
actually a lot
yeah you're you're sneaky enough to be a
good psychiatrist
thank you
um yeah so that's what we do
you know we can wrap up now if you want
to we can talk about meditation a little
bit
um if i think this is going to be old
news to you but
i was thinking about maybe taking a
moment to explain a couple of things we
haven't talked much about
diagnosis and and stuff like that i'm
purposely not asking you that question
because i don't want to
but if people are curious you know i can
share some information that may or may
not
relate to nikki but i think is just
useful information to know
does that feel safe to you yeah for sure
okay
so the first thing is that you know what
we're hearing from nikki and this
happens to a lot of people is that
when we grow up in situations where um
sometimes we deal with things like abuse
and neglect
we have to learn like almost as a
survival mechanism like
how to
read other people so there's a lot of
evidence that shows there's a really
interesting study
on people who have borderline disorder
which is um a diagnosis that relates to
early childhood trauma
where if someone's smiling if i'm
smiling
and then i get mad if you look at that
like if if we were to like
pause or like take a recording of that
video and watch that transition like i'm
smiling and then maybe this is like
halfway
and then i'm mad you know if we look at
that transition and we break it up into
a hundred still photos
where photo number one is 100 smile in
photo number two
i mean photo number hundred is a hundred
percent angry
most of us have to cross the halfway
point before we can tell that
someone isn't smiling anymore we have to
be at like 70 percent towards
anger people with bpd
can detect anger when people are like 80
smiling so something happens in our
brains when we grow up in environments
that are traumatic
where when everyone else is smiling we
are actually able to pick out
like negative things and so it changes
the way that we think it's absolutely
adaptive mechanism there's an interview
that we did with coco b
a couple maybe about almost a year ago
now where
you know he grew up in an abusive house
household and i asked him like
how many seconds did it take from when
your dad walked into the door
whether you knew like you know today is
a bad day or today is a good day
and he's like less than two less than
three like you know right away
so your brain is actually wiring to
detect
negative sentiment from other people and
that can be really really challenging
because like even people who like you
eighty percent of the way there
all you're gonna see is the 20
frustration that they have
and that can be very hard for you to
like interact with other people because
even though
most of the people are happy all you're
seeing is people being angry
and so you know i think that's something
that we see a lot with trauma
the other interesting thing is that when
people you know go through traumatic
experiences you develop this voice in
your head that kind of
talks about how you're a bad person that
voice gets reinforced by seeing the 20
frustration in every person you meet
because it's like you see i told you so
i told you so
sometimes we also get into weird
patterns and we didn't talk too much
about this but i'll leave this for you
for later but that
let's say you meet two people i haven't
asked you about your sexuality or
anything but i'm just gonna assume a
heteronormative perspective for a second
so let's say you meet two guys
and like one of them genuinely cares
about you
and one of them is an [ __ ] who
pretends to care about you
and the interesting thing that can
happen is that sometimes
the genuine caring actually makes you
feel so uncomfortable that you pull away
from it
and you kind of pick the devil that you
know and so this is where like
that awareness of that discomfort
it becomes really really important and
and sort of not giving in to that
discomfort or at least
noticing okay am i giving into this like
why do i not like this guy
like what is my mind telling me which
voice in my head is the one telling me
that this is not the right guy
and what what is it that like why am i
so enamored with this person
oh they're so caring they're willing to
drop everything for me
you know they met me three days ago and
they're gonna move across the country to
be with me
and it can you can feel so loved but the
problem is like that same guy
six months later is gonna move across
the country for someone else
and then the voice in your head is like
see i told you so i told you you were
unlovable
he just got to know you and you couldn't
keep up the act for so
so long oh you got it
[Laughter]
see that stuff about you know you being
unlovable great because that's what
we're talking about
is that sometimes that voice tells you
that you're fundamentally unlovable
because if you are lovable it changes
everything
and so a lot of times when we deal with
those voices we also get into
you know our bodies our minds our brains
have to cope they have to survive
they have to adapt so the voice itself
is one adaptation and then we also find
i i basically have seen three things
consistently one is substance use
one is self-harm and third is eating
disorder
eating disorder is the way that we get
control over our life
i'm not in control i don't get to choose
i'm moving every six months
i don't get to choose who my mom hangs
out with but i get to control what i put
into my body
and even when there are lots of signals
from your body that are telling you
you should eat something you are going
to say no despite how hard things get
oddly enough
the harder things get the more out of
control your world is
the more empowered you feel by taking
control
of like all of these sensations from
your body you are gonna win
at least in this temple that is my body
i get to decide what happens
and so we see this really interesting
like correlation between the eating
disorder gets worse
when your circumstances get worse and
it's like you trying to internally
balance stuff
self-injurious behavior we talked about
a little bit sometimes self-injurious
behavior can be
the result of like you actually like
wanting to hurt yourself
but for some people for a lot of people
it actually seems to be almost like a
meditative technique when i hear people
talk about it when i ask them like
how do you feel before you do it how do
you feel when you do it how do you feel
after you do it
sounds to me like meditating because you
enter this no mind state where your mind
is fully focused on the cutting or the
burning or the whatever
right and then substance use is sort of
the easy oblivion
this is one that we do gaming to
i'm just gonna load up this particular
game and i'm gonna forget about all my
problems
yeah so so kind of like wrapping things
up
you know here's what i'd say um if
anyone is struggling with either
substance use eating disorder behaviors
or self-harm you guys should really do
yourself the benefit i think nikki is
the nikki that we're seeing today who's
incredibly adaptive and has managed to
be like really successful at the age of
19 and all that good stuff
i think that she's accomplished through
like doing a lot of hard work on your
own but also having some
expert guidance so i encourage anyone to
go see a licensed mental health
professional
if you guys are dealing with any of that
stuff um
and also to try to understand like the
fundamentals of sort of like who you are
you know and and at some point nikki i
know it's terrifying but
at some point no i'm
you're gonna push that back let me think
about this
i was about to say at some point i hope
you realize that you are worth caring
for
intrinsically and and i know that
there's a part of you that can get on
board with that but there's a part of
you that may be pushed that way so i'm
going to say something else which is
going to be a little bit more terrifying
and a little bit more defiant
i'm going to choose to care about you
whether you like it or not now you think
the baseball bat again i'm gonna just
care you can
go [ __ ] yourself i don't well that
doesn't mean that you care about me
though
huh that doesn't mean you care about me
though yeah it's a little bit of a joke
i know i'm gonna choose to care about
you no matter what you do whether you
become a psychiatrist and you save
thousands of lives
good for you and if you choose not to do
that
i still think you're a worthwhile person
who deserves
a place on this earth and deserves
happiness
sinking in somewhere everyone how much
you're swatting
yeah enough for today
i would say so i think normally i would
offer to teach you meditation but i
think today is a day where we're not
going to do that i think
we're going to just let you i've learned
a lot about medica
meditation that's the other thing and
and and maybe what i would yeah so i
think we're just going to let you go now
okay thank you so much for coming on
thank you so much for having me i
appreciate that a lot yeah
dude you've been awesome thank you thank
you
good luck to you thank you all right
bye oh man
chat she is pog dude
incredibly strong